Congo is certainly not among
the most popular travel destinations
for tourists around the world,
but it is definitely a preaching paradise.
In general, very few people have reservations
to discuss their personal
spiritual convictions with strangers.
In addition, Jehovah’s Witnesses
are well-known for their high moral standards
and their consistent Bible education.
It is not uncommon for non-Witness parents
to even solicit the services
of a Witness Bible teacher
in order to help their children
become better persons
and improve their performance in school.
As a result,
the number of Bible studies
is about three times
the number of active Witnesses.
And Memorial attendance figures
amount to almost five times
the number of publishers.
As you can imagine,
in a country where Internet connections
are pretty unstable in urban areas
and almost unavailable in more remote places,
it was a tremendous challenge
for the friends to adapt
to the alternative COVID-19 meeting
and preaching methods.
Our branch benefited
from many additional arrangements
that have been kindly put in place
to assist these brothers and sisters
to keep up-to-date with spiritual food
and stay active in the ministry,
such as the JW satellite TV channel,
the JW Box network,
and prerecorded public talks
broadcast on local radio stations.
In addition, publishers came up with some
very practical alternative
preaching methods themselves.
For example,
in a rural congregation called Mpeshi
deep in the interior,
the news of a worldwide pandemic
costing hundreds of thousands of lives
hadn’t been perceived
as more than background noise.
Still, a temporary special pioneer
called Emmanuel
was determined to apply
theocratic COVID-19 instructions.
But how could he continue
to conduct his Bible studies
in a place with no Internet coverage
and with students
who don’t even possess smartphones?
This is what he came up with:
As his house has a main entrance
and a back door,
he advised his Bible students
to come one by one
and enter through the back door,
which he left open
(each one with his own chair
not touching anything in the room),
and sit down next to the closed door
leading to the living room.
Emmanuel himself used the main door,
sat on the other side
of that closed door in the living room,
and conducted his studies,
so to speak, behind a closed door.
So let’s go back to the urban areas.
Here government-imposed
COVID-19 restrictions
had a great impact
on thousands of our
self-employed brothers and sisters
who overnight were cut off
from their already meager sources of income.
Our branch was authorized
to provide about 3,000 tons of staple food
for more than 200,000 beneficiaries.
One hundred thirteen
Disaster Relief Committees
distributed this humanitarian aid
in only four months.
As food trucks
pulled up at Kingdom Hall properties
and later hundreds of individuals
left with care packages,
many onlookers were deeply impressed.
Once more, they realized
how different Jehovah’s organization is
from all the other
religious entities around them.
While many pastors and preachers
urged their church members
to help them financially during the pandemic,
the Witnesses distributed free goods
to needy ones in their community.
Definitely “the fields [in Congo]
are white for harvesting,”
and the reapers rejoice.